So we created one alarm from a metric; let's create another.
This time, let's select Create alarm.
In the previous example,
the metric was already selected for us because we
started off through the metric section.
Here we have to say Select metric.
And if I give myself a bit more real estate here,
we can see the same 2000 plus metrics, the custom namespaces,
and the AWS namespaces.
I'm going to choose the EC2 namespace again.
But instead of per‑instance metrics,
this time I'm going to select by auto scaling group.
And in search, I'm going to look for the Globomantics auto scaling group.
So now we're just looking at metrics for the Globomantics auto scaling group,
and again, I'm going to look for CPU utilization.
I'm going to select that.
Here we're seeing the CPU utilization across all members of this auto scaling
group as opposed to per‑instance metrics that we saw before.
If I select this metric, and again,
we'll want a condition, so if CPU is greater than 80%,
I want that to generate an alarm.
If I say Next, this time I want two actions.
The first is to send a message to an SNS topic,
so let's select our topic,
but I also want this alarm to trigger an auto scale event.
So if I scroll down a little bit and from auto scale
select Add Auto Scaling Action, we can then select an auto scale group,
and the scaling policy on that group that I want to be
triggered when CPU goes above 80%.
This auto scaling group and its scaling policy have been pre‑configured.
So we say Next, add a name and optional description,
say Next one more time, and again, if we're happy with our settings,
we scroll down and choose Create alarm.
Just like our first alarm, this shows insufficient data,
but should transition to OK after a couple minutes.
And here we can see it transitioned to the OK state.
When this alarm goes to the alarm state,
it will trigger the auto scale policy,
which in turn will bring on additional instances because our
auto scale group is under such heavy load.
So we've seen some metrics and we've seen some alarms,
but what about integrating our EC2 operatin system
information and custom logs into CloudWatch?
Well, let's take a look at that.
So here I've RDP'd into web server 4. I've already
downloaded and installed the CloudWatch agent.
I now need to configure it.
If I take a look at this directory, we can see the Amazon
CloudWatch agent configuration wizard.
So let's run that.
So the Agent Configuration Wizard is going to ask us a series of
questions used to create the JSON configuration file that's used
to customize this CloudWatch agent.
Now, we're not going to answer all the questions here,
but you would run through this wizard answering all the questions that get
asked. Once you've run through the configuration wizard, the next thing is to
start the service. Here you can see a PowerShell script that's used to start
the CloudWatch agent service. And this command,
amazon‑cloudwatch‑agent‑ctl.ps1 ‑a fetch‑config ‑m ec2, and then the file
location where the configuration JSON file can be found,
we'll start the service with the appropriate JSON configuration file.
So now the service should be started with the appropriate configuration.
Let me show you that command again and make it a
little bit easier for you to read.
So there's the command.
And although this is written across three different lines,
remember, it is a single command.
So with the agent installed, the Wizard run to create the configuration
file, and now the service started with the appropriate configuration,
this web server should start sending operating system metrics on
potentially custom logs to CloudWatch, metrics logs you choose when you
create the configuration file.
Let's take a look at example of this config.json file. I'm over in
Systems Manager, specifically Parameter Store.
As part of the Agent Configuration Wizard, we can choose to store
the config file in Parameter Store for later use.
So let's look at these details.
So these are the details of that configuration file, and you can see
as part of the configuration, I've asked this to collect some custom
logs, and these are my web server logs. We're also asking to collect
event viewer system information,
including verbose, informational, warning, error, and critical messages.
And then we specify the type of metrics that should be
collected from the operating system.
When I configure a second web server now,
or I configure a group of web servers en masse, I can point at
this configuration file in Parameter Store.
If we go back to CloudWatch, and again,
I'm in metrics, notice this CWAgent namespace.
If I select that, and I'll choose the first dimension, we can see
metrics that are being registered by the CloudWatch agent.
If we go to log groups and select the system log group, here we see log
streams that are being generated by the CloudWatch agent.
Specifically,
each of these streams is registered events from the Windows Systems logs.
So in this demonstration,
we've seen metrics, alarms, and brief with integration of our operating system's applications with CloudWatch using the CloudWatch agent.